feat(dev-toolbar): Dev Toolbar Docs (#12117)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/dev-toolbar/setup.mdx

---
title: "Set Up"
sidebar_order: 10

> description: "Get started with Sentry's Dev Toolbar, bringing critical Sentry insights and tools into your web app to help your team troubleshoot more effectively.."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Get started with Sentry's Dev Toolbar, bringing critical Sentry insights and tools into your web app to help your team troubleshoot more effectively."
```

---

<Alert level="info">
  The Dev Toolbar is currently in **beta**. Beta features are still in progress and may have bugs. Please reach out on
  [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-toolbar/issues) if you have any feedback or concerns.
</Alert>

## Set Up Your Web App

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">

>     Enabling performance is a prerequisite for having page-aware panels, as it allows us to collect page-specific issues and feedback through transactions.

Reviewer 2: We refer to it as 'tracing' instead of performance. But, what we really mean here is that a transaction must exist and be bound to the scope? I think given the description it makes sense, I'd just rename it to tracing, and link to the docs. 

```suggestion
    [Enabling tracing](/platforms/javascript/tracing/) is a prerequisite for having page-aware panels, as it allows us to collect page-specific issues and feedback through transactions.
```

> </Alert>

Reviewer: Are you saying that you _could_ use the Dev Toolbar without tracing? Or that if you have tracing you will get page-aware panels but if you don't have tracing you will get the issues across that project but not necessarily for that page?

Regardless, I think this should be clarified depending on your answer.

You need to complete two steps to get the toolbar rendered on the page:

> 1. Add or dynamically inject `<script defer src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>` into your web app. This script uses the `defer` attribute so that it does not block document parsing. The script tag can be inserted at the bottom of the page so it doesn’t block other critical Javascript.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add or dynamically inject `<script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>` into your web app. This script uses the `defer` attribute so that it does not block document parsing. The script tag can be inserted at the bottom of the page so it doesn’t block other critical Javascript.
```

Reviewer: This code feels long enough to just be a small snippet instead of inline.

Reviewer: So are you saying that `toolbar.min.js` uses `defer` so is that why you removed it from the `script` tag?

Reviewer 3: I removed defer because I think the following inline script could be messed up by that. Haven't tested defer or async attractor, so removed it for now.

Reviewer: Should we then remove the sentence:
`This script uses the `defer` attribute so that it does not block document parsing. ` until we know?

Reviewer 3: Yes it would be consistent if that was also gone.

> 1. Add or dynamically inject `<script defer src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>` into your web app. This script uses the `defer` attribute so that it does not block document parsing. The script tag can be inserted at the bottom of the page so it doesn’t block other critical Javascript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add or dynamically inject `<script defer src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>` into your web app. This script uses the `defer` attribute so that it does not block document parsing. It is recommended that you add the script tag at the bottom of the page so it doesn’t block other critical JavaScript.
```

> 2. Call `window.SentryToolbar.init(initConfig)` to set up a toolbar instance on each page where you want to see the Dev Toolbar.

Reviewer: This makes it feel like you have to add both to every page instead of just the `window.SentryToolbar.init(initConfig)`. Is that true? If not, we should consider removing the first script from this code snippet.

Author: @ryan953 I'm not sure how to rewrite so that it's clear that only the init needs to be added to every page. Any ideas?

Reviewer 3: Both need to exist together whenever, and can be inserted whenever a full pageload happens. So if we're talking nextjs they can go in the custom [`_document.tsx`](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/custom-document) file, or if it's laravel it'll go into [`master.blade.php`](https://laravel.com/docs/5.0/templates) for example.

Only having `<script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>` will load up the JS bundle, but won't render anything. While calling `window.SentryToolbar.init()` without the other script tag existing will cause an error.  So they both have to exist, in this order on the page.

    ```html
    <html>
    <head>...</head>
    <body>
        …

>         <script async src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        <script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>
```

        <script>
        window.SentryToolbar.init({ … });
        </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```

### Unmounting The Toolbar

If you have called `SentryToolbar.init({...})` to render the toolbar, but now want to manually remove or unmount it from the page, you can call the cleanup function that is returned from `init()`. This will unmount all the injected HTML and CSS. Login credentials will not be removed, so you can re-insert the toolbar and still be authenticated.
```html

> <script defer src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>
```

<script>
  const unmountToolbar = window.SentryToolbar.init({ … });

  // sometime later...
  unmountToolbar();
</script>
```

## Implement Feature Flag Adapter

> In order to integrate your Feature Flagging platform with the Dev Toolbar, you will need an Adapter that can read flag data from your provider, and also store and retrieve a list of overrides to apply to your local browser session.

Reviewer: There is inconsistency with the capitalization of Adapter here. I'm not sure if it has to be capitalized, but it felt weird being capitalized.

> We plan to create adapters for OpenFeature and LaunchDarkly soon!

Reviewer: If you want to include this you should have a discussion or issue on GitHub to link to and remove the !. Otherwise I would say remove this sentence until you do.

> The interface you need to implement for an Adapter is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Adapter interface is:
```

```javascript
type FlagValue = boolean | string | number | undefined;
type FlagMap = Record<string, FlagValue>;
interface FeatureFlagAdapter {
  /**
   * All known flag names and their evaluated values.
   */
  getFlagMap: () => Promise<FlagMap>;

  /**
   * Any overridden or manually set flags and values.
   */
  getOverrides: () => Promise<FlagMap>;

  /**
   * Manually set a flag to be a specific value, overriding the evaluated value.
   */
  setOverride: (name: string, override: FlagValue) => void;

  /**
   * A callback to clear all overrides from this browser.
   */
  clearOverrides: () => void;

  /**
   * Deeplink into your external feature-flag provider and find out more about
   * this specific flag.
   */
    urlTemplate?: undefined | ((name: string) => string | URL | undefined);

>     }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
}
```

```

> [MockFeatureFlagIntegration.tsx](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-toolbar/blob/301c31d561a81e3fd8ffc9532aad3a60af685916/src/env/demo/MockFeatureFlagIntegration.tsx) is an example adapter to use as a reference.

Reviewer: This feels like it needs to be above the interface but I can't think of how I would word it.

## Init Configuration Fields

The following fields can be passed into the `.init()` function.

For example, a minimal configuration looks like:
```javascript
window.SentryToolbar.init({

>   organizationSlug: ‘acme’,
>   projectIdOrSlug: ‘website’,
>   environment: ‘production’

Reviewer 3: more quotes

```suggestion
  organizationSlug: 'acme',
  projectIdOrSlug: 'website',
  environment: 'production'
```

if i spotted these we should check everything again to make sure none others are still hanging around.

> The following fields can be passed into the `.init()` function.
> 
> For example, a minimal configuration looks like:
> ```javascript
> window.SentryToolbar.init({
>   organizationSlug: ‘acme’,
>   projectIdOrSlug: ‘website’,
>   environment: ‘production’
> });
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At minimum, you should be calling `.init()` with these three fiels: 
```javascript
window.SentryToolbar.init({
  organizationSlug: ‘acme’,
  projectIdOrSlug: ‘website’,
  environment: ‘production’
});
```
And you can include any additional fields from this list:
```

| Field Name | Type | Description | Default Value |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| `organizationSlug` | `string` | The organization that users should login to. For example \`acme\` | *Required Value* |
| `projectIdOrSlug` | `string \| number` | The project for which this website/webapp is associated. | *Required Value* |

> | `environment (optional)` | `string \| string[] \| undefined` | The environment of this deployment. Used to narrow search results in the Toolbar UI. Set to \`undefined\` or \`””\` or \`\[\]\` if you want to see results from all environments. | `undefined` |

Reviewer 3: don't escape the backticks in any of the fields here, we're talking about some code thing, the backticks are markdown to make it look like code.

```suggestion
| `environment (optional)` | `string \| string[] \| undefined` | The environment of this deployment. Used to narrow search results in the Toolbar UI. Set to `undefined` or `””` or `\[\]` if you want to see results from all environments. | `undefined` |
```

| `placement (optional)` | `‘right-edge’ \| ‘bottom-right-corner’` | Where to render the toolbar on the screen. | `”right-edge”` |
| `theme (optional)` | `‘system’ \| ‘dark’ \| ‘light’` | Whether to use dark or light mode. | `”system”` |

> | `featureFlags (optional)` | `FeatureFlagAdapter \| undefined` | See [Implement FeatureFlagAdapter](/product/dev-toolbar/setup//#implement-feature-flag-adapter) above | `undefined` |

Reviewer 3: Why did "Implement FeatureFlagAdapter" go above?

Author: Jasmin and I think that it makes more sense since you need to set up the feature flags adapter before you run the init (at least if you inject). Open to moving it back down if you have a differing opinion tho!

Reviewer 3: Flip it back. 

the way you're manually injecting it is a development thing, users won't do that in real life. and even if they did, they'd need to do it every time they opened a new browser window.

It's not a scenario that's in the docs, or that should happen often. We should organize the docs to someone can follow from steps 1 to N top to bottom. When a question pops up then it should be answered in the next section. Flag adaopters are optional, so should be lower down.

> | `sentryOrigin (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The origin where sentry can be found. Used for loading the connection to sentry, and generating links to the website. For example: \`"[https://acme.sentry.io](https://acme.sentry.io)"\` | `"https://sentry.io"` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sentryOrigin (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The origin where sentry can be found. Used for loading the connection to sentry, and generating links to the website. For example: \`"https://acme.sentry.io"\` | `"https://sentry.io"` |
```

> | `sentryOrigin (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The origin where Sentry can be found. Used for loading the connection to Sentry, and generating links to the website. For example: \`"[https://acme.sentry.io]"\` | `"https://sentry.io"` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `sentryOrigin (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The origin where Sentry can be found. Used for loading the connection to Sentry, and generating links to the website. For example: \`"https://acme.sentry.io"\` | `"https://sentry.io"` |
```

| `domId (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The \`id\` given to the \<div\> that is created to contain the toolbar html. | `"sentry-toolbar"` |
| `debug (optional)` | `string \| undefined`  | A comma separated string of debug targets to enable.  Example: `"logging,state"`  If the list contains ”all” or ”true” then all targets will be enabled. Valid targets: `"logging" "login-success" "settings" "state"` | `undefined` |
| `mountPoint (optional)` | `HTMLElement \| () => HTMLElement \| undefined` | Where to mount the toolbar in the DOM. | `document.body` |

> ## Deploying To Production & Dev Environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploying To Dev, Staging, and Production Environments
```

> Since the Dev Toolbar is deployed onto specific pages, it's strongly recommended that you consider which environments your app is deployed to should have the toolbar available.

Reviewer: I agree. I tried to come up with another wording but couldn't find anything better than what you suggested.

For example, if your web application requires authentication to access, you could add a conditional where the Dev Toolbar is shown always when deployed to development **and** staging and is shown only if an employee is logged in when deployed to production.

The code might look like this:
```javascript
// example conditions to render the toolbar in different environments.

const env = process.env.SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT || 'development';
const isEmployee = user.email.endsWith('@joshys-pizza.com')

const isDev = env === 'development' || env === staging;
const isEmployeeInProd = env === 'production' && isEmployee;
if (isDev || isEmployeeInProd) {
  SentryToolbar.init({ ... });
}
```

If the toolbar `<script>` is accidentally included on your site, and `SentryToolbar.init()` is called, then a "Login to Sentry" button will be visible to the public. This is not ideal, but your data in Sentry will still be safe as users outside of your Sentry organization will not be able to authenticate themselves.

## Conditionally Inserting Script Tag

> It's possible to dynamically insert the script tag inside a single-page app, prior to calling `SentryToolbar.init()`, so that it’s only visible to authorized users. See [`docs/conditional-script.md`](http://conditional-script.md) for example code. This will help reduce network traffic for your users because they do not have the credentials needed to login.

Reviewer: I'm assuming we just haven't made this page yet?

Reviewer 3: This was copy+pasted from the readme, the link could point to the repo where that file does exist. @c298lee can you update this link and check for any others that are broken or wrong?

---
title: "Set Up"
sidebar_order: 10
description: "Get started with Sentry's Dev Toolbar, bringing critical Sentry insights and tools into your web app to help your team troubleshoot more effectively."
---

<Alert level="info">
  The Dev Toolbar is currently in **beta**. Beta features are still in progress and may have bugs. Please reach out on
  [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-toolbar/issues) if you have any feedback or concerns.
</Alert>

## Set Up Your Web App

> <Alert title="Note" level="warning">

Reviewer 3: IMO we could drop the title attr. 

Looks like this currently:

<img width="789" alt="SCR-20241213-lolg" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/de7920d0-0730-4c25-a376-6e766202b21b" />

>     [Enabling tracing](/platforms/javascript/tracing/) is a prerequisite using the Developer Toolbar. Tracing is used to collect page-specific issues and feedback through transactions.

Author: ```suggestion
    [Enabling tracing](/platforms/javascript/tracing/) is a prerequisite to using the Developer Toolbar. Tracing is used to collect page-specific issues and feedback through transactions.
```

</Alert>

You need to complete two steps to get the toolbar rendered on the page:
1. Add or dynamically inject the following script into your web app:
    ```html
    <script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>
    ```

>     It is recommended that you add the script tag at the bottom of the page so it doesn’t block other critical JavaScript.

Reviewer 4: Since placement is critical, can we be a little more specific here? Should it be at the body of the `<Body>` element?

2. Call `window.SentryToolbar.init(initConfig)` to set up a toolbar instance on each page where you want to see the Dev Toolbar.
    ```html
    <html>
    <head>...</head>
    <body>
        …
        <script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>
        <script>
        window.SentryToolbar.init({ … });
        </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```

> ### Unmounting The Toolbar

Reviewer 4: I'm a little confused by this, why would you want to mount the toolbar and then later unmount it on the same page? Am I misunderstanding this? Is there a brief use case we can provide to illustrate when you would want to do this?

If you have called `SentryToolbar.init({...})` to render the toolbar, but now want to manually remove or unmount it from the page, you can call the cleanup function that is returned from `init()`. This will unmount all the injected HTML and CSS. Login credentials will not be removed, so you can re-insert the toolbar and still be authenticated.
```html
<script src="https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/sentry-toolbar/latest/toolbar.min.js"></script>
<script>
  const unmountToolbar = window.SentryToolbar.init({ … });

  // sometime later...
  unmountToolbar();
</script>
```

> ## Init Configuration Fields

Reviewer 4: In other parts of the docs I've more commonly seen these referred to as 'options', should we stick to that convention here? I'm also open to 'fields' being the correct term, if that's the case we should update other docs to maintain consistency. 

@lizokm Do you have any thoughts on 'fields' vs 'options'?

Author: I've changed it to 'options' to stick with the convention

> ## Init Configuration Fields

Author: ```suggestion
## Init Configuration Options
```

> The following fields can be passed into the `.init()` function.

Author: ```suggestion
The following options can be passed into the `.init()` function.
```

> At minimum, you should be calling `.init()` with these three fields:

Author: ```suggestion
At minimum, you should be calling `.init()` with these three options:
```

```javascript
window.SentryToolbar.init({
  organizationSlug: 'acme',
  projectIdOrSlug: 'website',
  environment: 'production'
});
```

> And you can include any additional fields from this list:

Author: ```suggestion
And you can include any additional options from this list:
```

> | Field Name | Type | Description | Default Value |

Author: ```suggestion
| Option | Type | Description | Default Value |
```

| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| `organizationSlug` | `string` | The organization that users should login to. For example \'acme\' | *Required Value* |
| `projectIdOrSlug` | `string \| number` | The project for which this website/webapp is associated. | *Required Value* |

> | `environment (optional)` | `string \| string[] \| undefined` | The environment of this deployment. Used to narrow search results in the Toolbar UI. Set to `undefined` or `""` or `[]` if you want to see results from all environments. | `undefined` |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `environment (optional)` | `string \| string[] \| undefined` | The environment of this deployment. Used to narrow search results in the Toolbar UI. Set to `undefined` or `""` or `[]` if you want to see results from all environments. | `undefined` |
```

Do we need to share all the different ways to set this to see results for all environments ('undefined', '""', or '[]'). It would simplify things if we just picked one.

| `theme (optional)` | `'system' \| 'dark' \| 'light'` | Whether to use dark or light mode. | `'system'` |
| `featureFlags (optional)` | `FeatureFlagAdapter \| undefined` | See [Implement FeatureFlagAdapter](/product/dev-toolbar/setup//#implement-feature-flag-adapter) below | `undefined` |
| `sentryOrigin (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The origin where Sentry can be found. Used for loading the connection to Sentry, and generating links to the website. For example: `'https://acme.sentry.io'` | `'https://sentry.io'` |
| `domId (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | The `id` given to the \<div\> that is created to contain the toolbar html. | `'sentry-toolbar'` |
| `debug (optional)` | `string \| undefined` | A comma separated string of debug targets to enable. Example: `'logging,state'`. If the list contains 'all' or 'true' then all targets will be enabled. Valid targets: `'logging' 'login-success' 'settings' 'state'` | `undefined` |
| `mountPoint (optional)` | `HTMLElement \| () => HTMLElement \| undefined` | Where to mount the toolbar in the DOM. | `document.body` |

## Implement Feature Flag Adapter

> In order to integrate your Feature Flagging platform with the Dev Toolbar, you will need an adapter that can read flag data from your provider, and also store and retrieve a list of overrides to apply to your local browser session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to integrate your feature flagging platform with the Dev Toolbar, you will need an adapter that can read flag data from your provider, and also store and retrieve a list of overrides to apply to your local browser session.
```

  /**
   * Deeplink into your external feature-flag provider and find out more about
   * this specific flag.
   */
    urlTemplate?: undefined | ((name: string) => string | URL | undefined);
}
```

[MockFeatureFlagIntegration.tsx](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-toolbar/blob/301c31d561a81e3fd8ffc9532aad3a60af685916/src/env/demo/MockFeatureFlagIntegration.tsx) is an example adapter to use as a reference.

## Deploying To Dev, Staging, and Production Environments
Since the Dev Toolbar is deployed onto specific pages, it's strongly recommended that you consider which environments the toolbar should apply to.

In dev and staging environments, you might want to *unconditionally* include the toolbar so that all developers and testers can use it and quickly go from the page they're looking at back to Sentry for further debugging.

In production however, it's strongly recommended to *conditionally* include the Dev Toolbar `<script>` tag so that only members of your Sentry organization can see it. The specific implementation for conditionally including the Dev Toolbar is something you'll need to write based on how your app works and how your dev team is set up.

> For example, if your web application requires authentication to access, you could add a conditional where the Dev Toolbar is shown always when deployed to development **and** staging and is shown only if an employee is logged in when deployed to production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if your web application requires authentication to access you could add a conditional where the Dev Toolbar is shown always when deployed to development **and** staging, but in production only show the toolbar **if** an employee is logged in.
```

The code might look like this:
```javascript
// example conditions to render the toolbar in different environments.

const env = process.env.SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT || 'development';
const isEmployee = user.email.endsWith('@joshys-pizza.com')

> const isDev = env === 'development' || env === staging;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const isDev = env === 'development' || env === 'staging';
```
